Previously onSEAL Team...
We've lost Bravo 2.
I say again, we've lost Bravo 2.
Havoc Base, this is Bravo 2.
Do you copy?
All right, change of plans.
We're going to get Ray.
I came here to talk
about my real issue TBI.
I didn't see any record
of traumatic brain injury.
If your wound wasn't documented
while you were serving,
I can't treat it.
Hey, Swanny.
ISR just picked up
Bravo 2's helmet strobe. Copy that.
They'll send everyone.
Bravo will not be able
to fight their way to safety.
I know.
There's no chance I'm
authorizing an Indian-led QRF.
And you'll have to deal
with the fallout.
Bashir Varma. I
know this location.
I will kill you.
Ain't nothing stopping me.
Go.
He is my refuge,
my God in whom I trust.
Ray, get down.
Copy that.
Bravo's helo is about
to touch down.
Can't believe we're getting
them all back in one piece.
Well, recovered Ray,
avoided a diplomatic firestorm,
and we didn't escalate
the India-Pakistan crisis
into a nuclear war.
I'd call today a win.
Well, don't forget
why we're here, Commander.
To get Yasin Khan.
Let me remind you,
recovering Perry rather than
taking out Khan was your call.
One that's had
some serious consequences.
Rescuing Senior Chief Perry
was the right decision.
I stand by it, sir.
A zealot like Khan, he's
got to spread his message.
He's not gonna go underground.
We'll find him.
It won't be Bravo
going in if you do.
Had your shot and you missed.
Total mission failure.
That's not entirely
fair, sir, we...
I don't entirely care.
The results speak
for themselves.
A word, Commander?
Hey, Ray. How you feeling? Hey.
A few scratches,
few bruises, but...
I'll be ready to go
when we reload on Khan.
Not asking about the elbow.
I know.
Give us a minute, will you?
How am I feeling? Yeah.
How are you feeling?
Feel like I've never seen
a more beautiful sunset
than the one I saw tonight.
Feel like...
I've never wanted to
see my family more
than I want to see
them right now.
And I feel like...
I don't deserve...
my teammates who marched
through hell
to come save me.
Really thought you were
gonna die on that mountain.
I did die.
Part of me, anyway.
I was almost lost
for good, brother.
Told this woman
I was holed up with...
I'd kill her
if she made a sound.
I scared her, but
I terrified myself.
Mostly because
I believed I'd do it.
Knew I was digging my own grave
if I let her go, but, Jace,
something happened
and I realized
she was sent to me.
That woman was my salvation.
She was your salvation...
How's that?
It just hit me.
I'd rather die being
the man Naima loved...
than live as the man she found.
I know Mexico...
denying that guy's
last rites, it...
hey.
That wasn't you, man,
that was me.
I know how hard
that was on you, and I...
should have been there
for you, and I wasn't.
You were when you marched
your ass
over that damn mountain
to come save me.
And that's all that matters.
No brother left behind.Amen.
Amen. That's right.
Back in five,
four, three...
I'm pleased to be joined
by Ash Spenser,
former Navy SEAL and author
of the best-selling book.
The Man behind the Myth.
Welcome. It's an absolute honor
to be here, Patty,
speaking about an American hero
that your audience
most likely has never heard of.
Brett Swann.
Brett is the former Navy SEAL
who recently
took his own life
in the parking lot
of a VA campus? That's correct.
One among 19 veterans
who have committed suicide
on VA campuses
from 2017 till now.
What do you call that?
Acts of protest.
Wake-up calls.
Right, I-I guess what
I'm asking, Ash, is,
did Brett do
what he did because he was
suffering from
traumatic brain injury?
Brett committed suicide because
he couldn't get treatment
for his TBI.
And that's a crime.
A national disgrace.
Is this your second book?
That's correct.
There he is,
ladies and gentlemen.
Bravo 2 is back in the fold.
Hey, how you feeling, buddy?
I...
grateful for all
you boys did for me.
Hate I put you in that position.
Do it again if we have to.
Well, no doubt, but,
if you do go missing again,
can we please
do it in a less
vertical environment?
Because my legs, they,
they are killing me right now.
Hurt? Like that? That hurt?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Come on, now.
Thank God for those horses.
You know,
I'm actually pissed off
that I missed Sonny
in his element.
In his element, man? Yeah.
He's definitely
no Clint Eastwood on a horse.
More like a koala bear
on a mule.
What the hell
you talking about, man?
I was doing things
on that animal
that you city boys
can't even comprehend.
Sonny can't ride.
- No, he can't ride.
- What?
I can ride just fine, I just...
I'm not a fan of those
furry, demonic quadrupeds.
A cowboy that hates horses.
I don't get it, I don't get it.
A frogman who hates water.
You two are a hell of a lot
more entertaining
when you
punch each other. I mean, look,
hey, you could've...
been Full Metal.
He fell off at least,
what, twice?
What I was demonstrating there
was a classic
horse warfare combat dismount.
Y'all should've been
taking notes.
All right, here we go.
So, we cleared hot
to go get Khan?
Khan's in the wind.
Entire compound's been vacated.
Look, fellas,
Commander Shaw's gonna recommend
that Bravo Team be split up
when we get back
from Virginia Beach.
I'm sorry.
I wanted you to hear
it from me first.
Guy's got no right.
I wouldn't trade Shaw's position
for all the tri-tip
in the world.
Shaw's out of his mind.
I'll do whatever I can.
Exhaust my Rolodex.
People owe me favors.
You know what,
maybe you should spend
some more time
watching your own six.
Indian helo disappears
out of nowhere.
You must have pulled
some strings for that one.
Some strings, something
like that, yeah,
That's gonna cost you.
A lot of things we do
in this job keep me up at night,
but risking it to save you guys
is not gonna be one of them.
Are you gonna be okay?
Okay? I just blew up my team.
You saved Ray's life.
Yeah, right after I almost
ruined my relationship with him.
You know, Mandy, I just
spent months convincing myself
that everything is just fine,
that everything's okay,
despite everything that's
gone on in my life.
My wife dying.
Adam getting blown up.
Brett, Clay.
You know, Mandy, maybe it's
just me who's falling apart
and taking my team with me.
You're being too hard on yourself.
Am I?
I have never seen anyone
adapt so effortlessly
on the battlefield.
You can do that
off the field, too.
You just have to decide to.
I don't know.
I don't know how.
Where you going?
Find Khan.
Hung around you long enough
to know one thing.
What's that?
We're never out of the fight.
Patty. Such a pleasure.
Nice to see you again.
So, what'd you think?
I think Swanny couldn't ask
for a better advocate.
Take a real coldhearted bastard
not to give him a
Purple Heart now.
Thanks for stepping up.
One second.
Spenser here.
Congressman Zuckerman.
You saw it?
Yes, sir, it's...
hugely important.
No, I-I can do that.
Absolutely. I'll
see you tomorrow.
Congressman Zuckerman
from the Armed Forces Committee?
This guy draws a
lot of water, Clay.
Could be just the guy we need
to fast-track that
Purple Heart for Brett.
All because of you, kid.
It's hard to believe
we might never go
outside the wire together again.
Shaw's got his head so far
up his cake-eating ass.
Hate to see what the world's
like without Bravo in it.
Indian intel source
places Khan in Lahore tonight
for a high-level meeting.
I hate to be a buzzkill,
Mandy, but...
Shaw grounded us. Indians can't escalate
their standoff with Pakistan.
We're the closest American unit
in the theater.
This call will be
above Shaw's head.
One last rodeo.
Bravo rides again.
India intelligence
received confirmation
Khan
stayed local, and is holding
a meeting tonight to coordinate
a multipronged attack,
likely in retaliation
for being targeted.
Gentlemen, this continues to be
an extremely volatile situation.
The entire region is on high
alert, both sides of the border.
And an urban environment means
even less of a margin of error.
This needs to be
a flawless operation.
The target building sits
in the middle of the city,
Populated area
means lots of eyes and ears.
Attracting
any unwanted attention
will send this op sideways
in a hurry.
Zero footprint on this one.
All right, now that
everybody's ears are up,
it's gonna be tough sneaking
into Pakistan under their noses.
Yeah. An industrial
zone is fed by a river
that runs into Lahore
from India.
We'll swim in? Yeah, swim.
Khan is a treasure trove
of intelligence.
This could be the most
significant capture since KSM.
Capture?
We're toe-tagging
that son of a bitch
for what he did to Bravo 6.
Listen, I know you all
want justice for Clay,
but Bravo could win
a lot of friends
at the Pentagon and at Langley
if you bring Khan in alive.
Saw your dad on TV last night.
What's
he grandstanding about now?
Brett Swann.
That right?
Yes, that is right.
It's ironic how your father
picked up the very fight
that I ordered you to put down.
Yes, sir.
Good frogman uses every tool
in their kit to succeed.
I hope Ash gets Swanny
what he deserves.
Contact's here.
Gear up.
Painter's van.
Nice touch, Batra.
So, doing some
interior decorating
or are we gonna be
schwacking boogers?
You guys are as good as I hear,
there will be time for both.
Havoc, this is 1,
I'm passing Dirty Work.
Cordoned off
the target building.
Well, what do you call
a curveball in cricket?
Cops must be on the take.
Yeah, we make our move now,
we'll be front-page news.
Hey, circle back to the alley
behind the building.
Bravo 1, the side alley has
approximately two meters
of separation
between the buildings.
Copy that, Havoc.
Target building
doesn't have a back door.
Yeah, but it's got
a fire escape.
Sonny, take care
of those lights.
Roger that, Master Chief.
Take the fire escape
up to the roof,
clear down, exfil the same way.
All right.
Full Metal,
you've got overwatch.
Roger that. Havoc, this is 1.
Passing Undercover.
Bravo 1, we have two tangos
in the clear.
Copy, 7. Keep an eye on 'em.
Sixth floor clear.
Go.
Stairs.
Slow, slow.
Moving!
Khan's going for the police.
SSE, get a biometric to collect
all intel and cell phones.
Roger that.
I'll go around. I'll take the stairs,
cut 'em off.
We got squares
in the fire escape.
Bravo 3, this is 7.
White side clear.
Call us even?
Cuff him, will you?
Yeah.
I got him. Yeah. Got him?
Compliments of Clay Spenser.
SSE's complete. Get those images to Havoc.
All right, let's go.
Safe in, safe out. Collapse
the way we came in.
Bravo 7, moving to you.
Jackpot.
Commander Shaw,
we just confirmed
that Bravo killed four
of the most wanted terrorists
in the region tonight.
Tell you what, Shaw's got some
pair, hitching a ride with us.
We should give
Commander Yoko Nono
the Argentinian
elevator treatment.
I tell you what, Shaw's gonna
be headed for a long-neck enema
if he tries
to turn this plane dry.
Yeah, well, I don't think
he's gonna be interested
in tangling with you.
Shaw just got his legs
cut out from under him.
You want to tell me what in
the hell you're talking about?
What I'm saying is,
is that in addition
to capturing Khan,
you boys just took out
four of the most wanted
terrorists in the region.
Shaw is gonna
get laughed out of D.C.
if he tries to take out Bravo.
Looks like
the band ain't breaking up
any time soon,
'cause we're back.
Look, we've taken our share
of lumps this deployment.
Some of 'em were
self-inflicted, but...
you guys kept pulling
yourselves up off the mat.
In the end...
we took out the son of a
bitch who took out Clay.
Never out of the fight.
Cheers to that. Cheers, bud.
Cheers.
Hey.
How'd it go
with the congressman?
That man can talk.
Can I get a whiskey on the
rocks, make it a double?
Isn't it a little early
for a double?
Politicians will do that to you.
So? What, is he,
is he gonna push
for the Purple Heart for Brett?
Congressman Zuckerman
definitely views Brett's case
as an opportunity to spread
the word about the need
to change the way that we treat
our vets, but... thank you...
The only change that clown
is really interested in
is moving his ass to the Senate.
Yeah, well, doing
what's right and self-promotion
aren't mutually exclusive.
Zuckerman made it
clear if the military
were to start retroactively
awarding Purple Hearts,
it'll just open up all kinds
of floodgates for legal issues,
creating huge financial burdens.
Brett's not getting
a Purple Heart.
No, he's not,
but I'm gonna keep
banging on the drum.
Maybe it's time to let it go.
I'm not letting it go.
In a few years
you're gonna be a vet.
I'm not gonna let you
suffer the same fate.
And, look, I want
this for Swann.
I want this for all the vets.
But mostly I want it for you.
Thanks, Dad.
All right, let's go, boys.
Wheels up America in 15 minutes.
Relax, Sonny.
Freedom bird ain't going
nowhere without us.
Yeah, and technically we're
in America right now, dumbass.
Just go back to
not talking, Brock.
Man, look at you.
I ain't seen you grinning
like that for months, Ray.
Man, that's my "18 hours
from kissing my babies" grin.
Yeah.
Must be nice to have
somebody to come home to.
Yeah, just hope I get
a warm welcome.
You weren't exactly
husband of the year in this
deployment, but then again,
you didn't cross any lines
of fatal variety.
Naima will have your back,
like she always does.
Hope so.
Ha.
Look at you.
Usually I got to drag
Sonny out of the sandbox.
Aw, come on, I-I just want
to get back and see Clay
and reunite the team.
Sonny's got deployment fever.
What's her name?
Yeah, and not her dancer name.
Yeah.
Man, I just want to get
the hell off this cursed island.
Let's go, boys.
Hey.
No, I'm good.
Damn, you look so grown up.
Don't remind my dad.
What's going on, buddy?
How's it going, dude?
I'm good. Yeah?
How's your leg? It's good.
Yeah, it's gonna be fine.
Look at you.!
Ray.
Where's Naima?
I...
I didn't tell her
I was coming home today.
I need to go to her.
I owe her that much.
It's gonna be good.
Hope so. Look at you, cowboy.
What's going on? Yeah.
We got that guy that
de-Playgirled your leg.
That doesn't surprise me.Yeah.
Alive.
Now, that surprises me.
Sonny Quinn.
Look at you,
looking pretty damn good
for a cake-eater.
Well, thank you, I think. Yeah?
What's the plan for tonight?
Think we're all
gonna go out drinking.-
No. Before then.
I think we should find
the nearest bedroom ASAP.
Hey, Sunshine. Look at you.
Hi.Hey.
What's going on?
Good? Yeah, good.
That you, Ray?
Yeah, baby, it's me,
the man you married.
Welcome home.
Hey.
Remember how Mikey hated
being away from home?
All he does now is talk
about how great Bridon is.
Yeah.
His coach called me.
They want him to,
stay the summer and train there.
What?
You'd let him stay?
Look how happy he is.
I just want him to be happy.
It's too expensive.
You can't afford it. Got it figured out.
But you'll be alone.
Yeah. Maybe sooner
than I'd like.
What?
Been looking
into Tisch's summer program.
And it's a great opportunity
to work with incoming freshmen
and work with, visiting faculty.
You sound like a brochure.
What?
Saw it on the website, and...
And I think
it'd be good for you.
I don't understand.
You've been fighting me going
to college this whole time.
Emma, you know, my job is
to protect people.
It's what I do.
And with you, you know,
going off to college,
being so far away, I'm thinking,
how am I supposed
to protect you?
Protect me from what? Don't know.
Bad choices, bad people,
things happening,
you getting hurt,
but that's not rational.
It's not rational.
You know, that kind of fear
just eats you up inside,
and it's undermining,
and I don't want my fear to ruin
your future.
You just woke up one day in Guam
and figured that all out?
I just woke up and I decided
to work the problem, and I'm...
I'm gonna work the problem.
British intelligence
received these a day ago.
The man with the hole
in his face is Bashir Varma.
A terrorist.
A dead terrorist.
And now a dead CIA asset.
Chatter confirms
that the Indians killed him,
and the only reason
they knew where Bashir was
You.
You unilaterally decided
to burn an asset.
I made a decision
to ensure the survival
of a Tier One asset
and an entire SEAL team.
You went rogue.
I'm pulling you out of DEVGRU,
out of the field.
And for the rest of your career,
you will only see the world
through the worst D.C. office
window that I can locate.
Left. Left. Left. Right.
Left. Left. Left.
Left. Right. Left.
Left.
Left. Left. Right. Left.
Left. A-left.
Right. Left. Left...
"In my Father's house
are many mansions.
"If it were not so,
I would have told you.
"I go to prepare a place
for you.
"And if I go
and prepare a place for you,
"I will come again
and receive you unto myself;
"That where I am,
there ye may be also."
What can I say about Brett Swann
that we don't already know?
Brett was...
he was a great man. Check.
To me this moment
isn't about Brett.
It's about failure.
Brett took his own life.
That's not why his life is over.
He was found in a parking lot,
but he didn't die there.
He died in Afghanistan
with his best friend Nicky.
Every moment that Brett
was living past that contact,
he was only sleepwalking,
because he was hurt
and he was changed.
I know because I was there for
the last few months of his life.
He was... he was helping me,
and he did help me.
Brett Swann was a hero.
Injured in combat,
killed by war.
And he deserved
to be honored as such.
And that didn't happen because
I failed to make it happen.
So...
I'm going to...
I'm gonna leave it up
to some other people
to talk about
what kind of a man Brett was.
What I'd like to do
is apologize.
I'm sorry
our country failed you, Brett.
that our politicians failed you.
I'm sorry
that the VA failed you.
Most of all,
I'm sorry that I failed you.
I failed to get for you an honor
which is rightfully yours.
You deserved better than me.
Than us as a nation.
Every vet deserves better
than what they got.
That's it.
Thanks for letting me
invade your life.
Sure.
I mean, not that I had a right.
No, friends have the right.
Watching you deal
with everything
the last couple weeks
reminded me of, um...
why you stood out.
You know, at the bar,
the night we met.
I don't really feel much like
the man I was when we met.
That's 'cause you're not.
You're an even better man.
All right, I... I got to be
serious for a second.
I doubt that.
I am. Look it,
this is my serious face.Okay.
Yeah. Sonny Quinn serious.Okay.
You, find out
about officer billet?
San Diego.
That's where they want me.Ouch.
Me, I just can't get my head
wrapped around, you know,
missing Davis.
Same, Sonny.
When?
Six weeks.
Okay. Okay.
Sonny, let's make
the time count.
Yeah. Yeah?
Yes, ma'am.
So how did everything go?
Fine.
They weren't happy with
the decision that I made,
but my reasoning was sound,
and they saw that.
No, no, they never
see everything.
Far as I'm concerned...
you saved our asses, and I'm
never gonna forget that, Mandy.
I know.
What's going on? You okay?
I'm fine.
I'm not buying it.
I know you, something's up.
I'm tired.
Yeah?
You should probably
say something.
Everybody's gonna want
to hear from you.
I got something to say. I'll say
a toast, but are you okay?
Stop trying to read me. I just
told you, everything's fine. All right.
I'd like to make a toast.
There are 46 special operators
in this room.
655 years of total service.
439 years of deployment.
130 of those years deployed
to war.
There are 21 divorces among us.
54 kids affected
by those breakups.
17 Purple Hearts.
104 Bronze Stars.
Three Silver Stars.
There are 24 shoulder
and arm surgeries.
64 leg and ankle surgeries.
22 back and neck surgeries.
And 34 people in this room
with hearing loss.
And all of us with a little bit
of what Brett had.
Every single one of us.
That's a lot of pain for us
to, to carry around, but...
I'm not trading that pain in
for anything,
'cause that's what makes us
who we are.
Yeah? Cheers.
It's a beautiful day.
Yeah.
It is.
You did good, Lisa.
I'm always gonna be here
for you, all right?
I love you.
Love you, too. I know.
Whiskey?
Whiskey.
How you doing, ?
How am I doing?
Captioning sponsored by.
Captioned by Media Access
Group at WGBH access.wgbh.org